<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/api3dao/api3-docs/blob/main/docs/api3/assets/images/api3.png?raw=true" width="400" />
</p>

# **_Legacy_** Documentation

<span style="color:red;margin-bottom:20px">⚠️ Please note: These docs are now
legacy. The only changes to them should be corrections, no enhancements. Go to
the [vitepress-docs](https://github.com/api3dao/vitepress-docs/) repo for the
current documentation. ⚠️</span>

**[API3 Documentation](https://docs.api3.org)** is kept as a regular repository
of Markdown files making it easy for everyone to contribute. Feel free to create
[issues](https://github.com/api3dao/api3-docs/issues) for discussions, proposed
additions and changes.

## What is API3?

[API3](https://api3.org/) is a collaborative project to deliver traditional API
services to smart contract platforms in a decentralized and trust-minimized way.
It is governed by a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), its code is
open source and its operations are transparent.

## API3 Thesis Statement

The vast majority of the external integrations that decentralized applications
need are to commercial Web APIs that traditional businesses have built to
monetize their data and services. Therefore, what is widely known as _the oracle
problem_ is in practice _the API connectivity problem_. Existing oracle
solutions fall short because they fail to make this distinction, resulting in
inferior solutions that depend on third-party oracles and ecosystems that
exclude API providers. By refining the definition of the problem, API3 aims to
provide a much more optimal solution.

## Whitepaper

See the
[whitepaper](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/api3dao/api3-whitepaper/master/api3-whitepaper.pdf)
for a detailed discussion of the project. Just as these docs, you can discuss it
and propose updates through
[issues](https://github.com/api3dao/api3-whitepaper/issues).

## Medium Posts

See a grouped list of our Medium posts [here](https://medium.com/api3).

## Become a part of API3

API3 is formed by people who spontaneously found each other through a common
understanding. Despite being largely overlooked, the API connectivity problem is
the most critical obstacle in front of meaningful decentralized applications
being built at scale.

If existing oracle solutions do not fulfill the needs of the decentralized
applications you want to build, give you a fair opportunity to monetize your API
business, or feel like they are working against the ethos of decentralization,
we invite you to be a part of API3 so that we can solve the API connectivity
problem together. If you are coming from a technical background, see our
[Documentation](https://docs.api3.org/) and get started contributing.

The API connectivity problem is in essence an ecosystem building problem, more
so than a technical one. This means that API3 can use the skills of all kinds of
experts and the decentralized nature of the project will allow you to shape it
in a way that makes the best use of your skills.

## Communication Channels

**Website:** https://api3.org/

**Forum (for community):** https://forum.api3.org/

**Telegram (for community):** https://t.me/API3DAO

**Discord (for contributors):** https://discord.gg/qnRrcfnm5W

**Medium publication of the DAO:** https://medium.com/api3

**[API3 Documentation](https://docs.api3.org)**
