---
title: The Airnode
---

# {{$frontmatter.title}}

<TocHeader />
<TOC class="table-of-contents" :include-level="[2,3]" />

Airnode is a serverless oracle node implemented with a "set and forget"
philosophy. Airnode is composed of two parts: the off-chain **Airnode** (a.k.a.
"the node") deployed as self hosted or cloud provider functions (e.g., AWS or
GCP) and the on-chain **protocol contract** AirnodeRrp.sol.

> ![2-parts](./assets/images/summary-airnode-2-parts.png) <br/><br/>
>
> <p class="diagram-line" style="color:gray;">Airnode is composed of two parts: the off-chain Airnode (a.k.a. "the node") deployed usually as cloud provider functions (e.g., AWS or GCP) and the on-chain protocol contract  AirnodeRrp.sol.</p>

At its core, **Airnode** brings the ability for API providers to easily run
their own _oracle nodes_. This allows them to provide their data on-chain,
without an intermediary, to any _decentralized app_ \(dApp\) interested in their
services.

At the heart of this mechanism sits **Airnode**, an open-source oracle node.
It's designed to be easily deployed by any API provider with almost no
maintenance. Because of Airnode, dApp developers can write _smart contracts_ to
interact with the on-chain data of API providers.

Airnode is designed with mechanisms to remove the on-chain or off-chain concerns
of API providers. The set-and-forget framework of Airnode is all about ease of
implementation.

::: tip

Learn more about the Airnode experience. Read Section 4 of the
<a href="/api3-whitepaper-v1.0.2.pdf#Airnode:%20A%20Node%20Designed%20for%20First-Party%20Oracles" target="_api3-whitepaper">API3
Whitepaper</a>, _Airnode: A Node Designed for First-Party Oracles_

:::

## Designed for First-Party Oracles

First-party oracles are integral to the API3 solution. This means each API is
served by an oracle that is operated by the entity that owns the API, rather
than a third party. This doc discusses the benefits of using first-party
oracles, why it is not feasible for API providers to operate their own oracles
with current available solutions and how to solve this problem with Airnode.

## Benefits of Disintermediation

There is a simple solution to intermediaries: First-party oracles; that is,
oracles operated by the API providers themselves. API providers operating their
own oracles means they would be signing their responses with their private keys
at the smart contract platform protocol-level, which is the best proof that the
data is not tampered with. Moreover, first-party oracles are private by default,
as a third party cannot observe the raw data from the API being processed, which
allows them to be used in a wider variety of use cases natively.

A data feed composed of first-party oracles would be more cost-efficient
compared to one employing middlemen, as one needs to pay middlemen both for
their services and to incentivize them against attacking the data feed (referred
to as the middleman tax). In addition, a data feed composed of first-party
oracles will need fewer oracles, as it would not need over-redundant
decentralization at the oracle level to protect against attacks from
third-parties. Assuming that each API is typically served by at least two
third-party oracles, data feeds powered by first-party oracles would be at least
50% more efficient in terms of gas costs, by a conservative estimate.

First-party oracles also provide much needed transparency in terms of the data
source and the degree of decentralization. Since each API provider will operate
an oracle—which will be visible on-chain—the number of oracles serving a data
feed will accurately represent how decentralized it is, as there is a one-to-one
mapping between oracle and data source. Furthermore, the API providers would
publish their on-chain identities through off-chain channels, which would allow
the users to verify whose data they are consuming at a given time.

Finally, having the API providers operate the oracles helps solves the legal
issues as the API services no longer need to be licensed to a third party and
the API providers receive the entire revenue. Furthermore, this solves the
rent-seeking third-party oracles problem, and allows the funds to be redirected
to the group that is doing the heavy lifting, the API providers. Incentivizing
API providers aligns their financial interests with the ones of the API3
ecosystem, resulting in a strong mutual bond between the two.

## Off-Chain Signing of Data

There is a hybrid solution that still depends on third-party oracles, yet does
not let them tamper with the data. In this scheme, the API provider signs their
data with their private key off-chain and serves it over a regular API endpoint.
Third party oracles call this endpoint to get the signed data and post it to the
chain. The authenticity of the data — that it is not tampered with by the third
party oracles — can then be verified on-chain using the public key of the API
provider.

Although it eliminates the risk of data tampering at the oracle level, this
solution is essentially a half-measure. By depending on third-party oracles, it
continues suffering from the ecosystem issues caused by depending on third-party
oracles, and, in addition, requires modifications at the API-side to implement
off-chain signing. This results in a severely limited API selection even
compared to the regular third party oracle based solutions, and restricts the
ecosystem growth potential of the solution to the application-scale.

## Barriers to API Providers Operating Oracles

During work from the past, API3 communicated with API providers extensively and
observed the following barriers to oracle onboarding and operation:

1. Traditional API providers are typically not more familiar with blockchain
   technologies than the general public. This applies even for the ones that
   curate cryptocurrency market data—as their main operation is collecting data
   from exchange APIs, processing them, and serving the result through their own
   APIs—which does not require any blockchain-specific know-how. Therefore, they
   typically cannot readily operate an oracle node with in-house resources.

2. There is no job market for oracle node operators. Even if some API providers
   were to obtain the specific know-how needed by hiring the few node operators
   that are available, this would not be a scalable solution.

3. Operating an oracle node consumes a lot of resources in the form of manhours
   and infrastructure costs. Unless one is guaranteed significant subsidies or
   future profits, operating an oracle node is financially infeasible.

4. Operating an oracle node requires the API provider to transact with
   cryptocurrencies. Specifically, they must pay for gas costs in the native
   currency (e.g., ETH) and receive payments in one or more cryptocurrencies.
   This disqualifies the vast majority of API providers due to compliance, legal
   and accounting reasons. In addition, any scheme that requires API providers
   to stake funds is categorically rejected for similar financial risk-related
   reasons.

## Airnode Features

Airnode is a fully-serverless oracle node that is designed specifically for API
providers to operate their own oracles. It addresses many of the oracle
node-related issues API provider face:

1. It does not require any specific know-how to operate. In fact, it is
   difficult to even speak of an operation, as Airnode is designed to be
   completely set and forget.

2. It does not require any day-to-day maintenance such as updating the operating
   system or monitoring the node for uptime owing to existing fully managed
   serverless technology. It is designed to be stateless, which makes it
   extremely resilient against any problem that can cause permanent downtime and
   require node operator intervention.

3. It is built on services priced on-demand, meaning that the node operator is
   charged only as much as their node is used. This allows any API provider to
   run an oracle for free and start paying only after they start generating
   revenue.

4. It does not require the node operator to handle cryptocurrency at all. Its
   protocol is designed in a way that the requester covers all gas costs.

One way to see Airnode is as a lightweight wrapper around a Web API that allows
it to communicate with smart contract platforms with no overhead or payment
token friction. Regarding the level of involvement required from the API
provider, using Airnode can be likened to utilizing an API gateway that makes an
API accessible over the Web, rather than operating a blockchain node as a
side-business. The intent is for Airnode to become as ubiquitous and mundane for
APIs as using an API gateway, which will make a vast variety of first-party
oracles available to API3.

API providers invest significant resources to build a highly available
infrastructure. It is important for the oracle node implementation to not
contain single points of failure that may cause downtime. Existing solutions
using third-party oracles depend on over-redundancy at the oracle level to cover
for this, which results in excessive costs. API3 envisions each API to only be
served by its first-party oracle, which means the redundancy has to be
implemented at the level of the individual Airnode. The node being
fully-serverless enables this to be done easily across different availability
zones of a single cloud provider, or even across multiple cloud providers. It
should also be mentioned that it will be possible to containerize Airnode and
operate it on-premises, yet using the serverless version will be recommended for
almost all use cases.

Airnode is developed by the founding members of API3 and is now open-sourced.
The software is feature-complete for current protocols, and further development
will be funded by API3 in the form of grants.

## Airnode Protocol

Preferring the better specified API connectivity problem over the oracle
problem, API3 believes that an oracle node should be designed to interface APIs
to smart contract platforms very well, rather than as a sandbox that can
purportedly be used for any purpose imaginable. Based on this philosophy, the
Airnode protocol is designed to follow the self-emergent patterns used by APIs
to achieve as transparent and frictionless of an API–smart contract platform
interface as possible.

The first and the most commonly used API style follows the request–response
pattern, where the user makes a request with parameters and the API responds as
soon as possible. This will be the first pattern that Airnode will support, as
it is easy to standardize and integrate with existing APIs that follow the same
pattern. An example use case of this scheme would be requesting the result of a
specific match to be delivered, which can be used to resolve the respective
prediction market. In addition, Airnode is planned to support the
publish–subscribe pattern, where the user requests the oracle to call back a
specific method when parametrized conditions are met. For example, a
decentralized exchange may request the oracle to trigger a liquidation event for
a user in a leveraged position when ETH price drops below a particular price.
Either of these patterns can be used to implement the live data feeds that DeFi
applications use today, but they can also support a much larger variety of use
cases in the form of dAPIs.

The Airnode protocol is designed in a way that the request contract's sponsor
assumes all gas costs, even including the request fulfillment (response)
transactions. This is achieved by each Airnode having a separate wallet for each
sponsor, similar to how cryptocurrency exchanges automatically designate wallets
for users to deposit funds to. The sponsor funds this wallet with the native
currency (e.g., ETH), either in a lump sum or through per-request
microtransactions. The funds in this wallet are used to fulfill all of the
following requests made by the sponsor. This scheme has significant advantages:

- The volatility in gas costs and payment token prices (e.g., LINK) makes it
  virtually impossible for oracles to set profitable yet competitive prices.
  Calculating prices dynamically on-chain requires multiple data feeds and adds
  a significant gas overhead per-request. With the Airnode protocol, the API
  providers do not have to concern themselves with gas costs, and can use
  pricing schemes such as $0.1 per call or $100 per month, which is similar to
  typical API pricing models.

- It is not reasonable to expect API providers to be able to convert fiat into
  cryptocurrency and fund their node wallets as a part of their day-to-day
  operations. In this scheme, the node operator never has to think about their
  node wallet balance.

- As seen in an attack performed on an Airnode competitor's data feeds, oracle
  nodes that use a common wallet to fulfill requests are susceptible to
  attackers spamming requests to drain their wallets. The solution to this is
  for the node operators to maintain a whitelist of trusted addresses that they
  will accept requests from. In addition to the difficulty of determining which
  contracts are supposed to be trusted in this context, this renders any kind of
  public listing service practically infeasible. This is a critical issue, as it
  stops the little independent ecosystem growth there is dead in its tracks.
  Airnode is not susceptible to this type of an attack, as a sponsor's
  designated wallet is only used to fulfill requests from the said sponsor, and
  cannot be drained by others.

- Traditional oracle nodes have to fulfill all requests with very high gas
  prices, as they cannot tolerate their transaction queue being blocked by a
  single transaction made with a low gas price. With the Airnode protocol, this
  is no longer a concern, as each sponsor will have a separate transaction
  queue. Then, sponsors whose requests are not time-critical would be able to
  provide the fulfillment gas price as a request parameter and enjoy service at
  a much lower gas cost. This scheme can be expected to synergize with EIP-1559.

Finally, let us briefly mention how the Airnode protocol approaches
monetization. It is common for a project-specific token to be worked into the
core of the protocol in an attempt to ensure that the said token is needed.
However, this induces an enormous gas price overhead, severely restricts
alternative monetization options and creates overall friction. For these
reasons, the Airnode protocol purposefully avoids using such a token. Instead,
the node operator is allowed to associate custom authorizer contracts to their
oracle endpoints, which essentially decide if a requester should be responded to
based on any criteria that can be implemented on-chain. The authorizer contracts
can be used to enforce whitelists, blacklists, monthly subscription payments or
per-call fees. This scheme is both very flexible, and is implemented in a way
that does not add any gas cost overheads. Although dAPI monetization is a
completely independent matter, the flexibility that Airnode provides will carry
over, e.g., it will be possible to implement a dAPI where the users assume all
gas costs, which is not possible with the existing oracle solutions.

## API Integrations

There is a chicken-and-egg problem when it comes to integrating APIs to oracles.
If there is no existing demand for an API in an oracle ecosystem, nobody is
incentivized to do the integration. If the API is not available due to a lack of
integration, nobody develops applications that will create the demand.

For API3 to reach its full potential, it will need hundreds, if not thousands of
first party oracles so that it can easily set up new dAPIs or recompose existing
ones. This can only be achieved if APIs can be integrated to Airnode in an even
more scalable way. To this end, an improved version of the proprietary
integration tools will be open sourced for Airnode. Borrowing from the
[OpenAPI Specification format](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.3.md),
Oracle Integration Specifications (OIS) define the operations of an API, the
endpoints of an oracle, and how the two map to each other. An Airnode user will
be able to serve an API over their oracle simply by providing its OIS to their
node. Integrations made in this standardized format will be very easy to
collect, version and distribute.

OIS is a JSON file, primarily designed to describe the integration
specifications for Airnode to use. This means that it does not aim to be
human-readable first and creating it manually to specify an integration would be
difficult. This problem will be solved by ChainAPI (a product from API3
currently in development), an integration platform that will allow users to
generate OIS for their APIs through an easy-to-use graphical interface. This
will be accompanied by other quality of life improvements for Airnode users,
such as a node dashboard and a marketplace to list their endpoints. As a result,
API3 will have a wide selection of first-party oracles to compose dAPIs from and
ecosystem growth will no longer be bottle necked by integration capacity.
