---
title: API Providers - Why power dAPIs?
folder: Introduction
---

<TitleSpan>{{$frontmatter.folder}}</TitleSpan>

# {{$frontmatter.title}}

<VersionWarning/>

<TocHeader />
<TOC class="table-of-contents" :include-level="[2,3]" />

dAPIs are lightweight, first-party data feeds that increase transparency, reduce
cost, and scale data access for Web3. They allow smart contract developers to
connect Web3 applications to continuously updated streams of off-chain data,
such as the latest cryptocurrency, stock, and commodities prices. dAPIs are
hosted on a growing number of networks.

> <img src="../assets/images/why-power-beacons.png" width="350px"/>

dAPIs read underlying on-chain Beacons whose value are updated by API provider
owned and operated Airnodes. Beacons unlock a novel data monetization channel
targeting the growing market of smart contract developers building the next
generation of games, applications, and services.

> <img src="../assets/images/dapp-beacon.png" width="450px"/>

## Reasons to power dAPIS with API provider Beacons!

dAPIs source Beacon values. Beacons enable API providers of all sizes the
ability to transparently, securely, and cost-efficiently monetize their data on
Web3. dAPI mechanics have been abstracted away so API providers simply need to
update Beacon values which is already build into their Airnode deployment.

### Monetization

Innovative decentralized applications (dApps) are increasingly demanding access
to off-chain data. API providers that utilize Beacons to power dAPIs can satisfy
this need and tap into a novel and growing revenue stream.

### Security

Other oracle implementations that provide Web3 data rely on networks of
3rd-party oracle nodes acting as middlemen. Beacons, on the other hand, feed
data from API providers directly to the dAPIs on-chain storage and thereby avoid
security risks and fees introduced by third parties. Moreover, developers
leveraging dAPIs for their dApps are provided with security guarantees
associated with knowing exactly where their data comes from.

### Pricing

Another benefit of the first-party design of dAPIs is that API providers can
price data attractively for developers thanks to the absence of hefty fees
charged by middlemen.

### Exposure

By engaging the emerging Web3 market for dAPIs, API providers gain exposure for
their organizations. API providers that power the Beacons behind dAPIS on
multiple blockchains, will further establish a reputation as premier data
providers.

### Reputation

When data comes directly from a source, as is the case with API provider powered
Beacons, the provider’s off-chain reputation comes with it. API providers can
therefore leverage the off-chain reputation they have built to attract
developers demanding high quality data.

### Transparency

dAPIs bring transparency to on-chain data delivery. API providers benefit from
control over how their data are handled, while dApp developers benefit from
knowing the provenance of the data they receive. dAPI development also embodies
governance transparency: API providers and dApp developers trust the API3 DAO
for its public governance and open source development practices.

### Scalability

dAPIs are lightweight and capable of meeting the demands of popular dApps and
high performance blockchains. At the same time, the cost-efficiency of dAPIs
enable a wide range of use cases that aren’t feasible with traditional data
feeds.

## Get started with Beacons!

Join the growing number of Beacons operated by the market’s most trusted and
reliable data providers. The simple design and implementation makes it easy to
deploy Airnode powered Beacons on EVM-compatible chains and API3 is always here
to help!

Sound appealing? API3 is ready to help onboard your organization to Web3 data
provision.
