---
title: Developersâ€”Why use dAPIs?
folder: Introduction
---

<TitleSpan>{{$frontmatter.folder}}</TitleSpan>

# {{$frontmatter.title}}

<VersionWarning/>

<!--TocHeader />
<TOC class="table-of-contents" :include-level="[2,3]" /-->

Due to being composed out of first-party data feeds, dAPIs offer security,
transparency, cost-efficiency and scalability in a turn-key package.

**Security**: Data used to update a first-party data feed is cryptographically
signed by the owner of the data. This means that the data that will update a
feed cannot be tampered with once it leaves the source. Furthermore, the API
providers host our first-party oracle node, [Airnode](../airnode/), to push the
data to the chain themselves. This renders denial of service attacks by third
parties ineffective.

**Transparency**: The cryptographic signatures prove that the data that updates
a feed comes directly from a specific API provider. Furthermore, Beacons that
underlie dAPIs allow the user to inspect what exact API endpoints are being
called, and with which parameters. This provides complete transparency to the
dApp developer, which is a big step from depending on a pseudonymous selection
of third parties that intentionally obscure their data sources.

::: tip dAPI Browser

dAPIs source data from Beacons, whose parameters you can examine in detail. See
the [dAPI Browser](../reference/beacon-browser.md).

:::

**Cost-efficiency**: dAPIs are cost efficient compared to third-party data
feeds, as the user does not need to pay middlemen node operators for their
services. Furthermore, first-party data feeds do not require redundancy against
middlemen layer attacks. This makes single-Beacon dAPIs feasible, and allows
API3 to provide a wide variety of data feeds in a cost-efficient way.

**Scalability**: An inherently secure and cost-efficient data feed design allows
API3 to build a large number of them, on many chains. This is supplemented by
purpose-designed Airnode protocols and relayer schemes to improve efficiency
while not degrading the security guarantees of a first-party data feed. The
improved scalability of dAPIs also factors into building aggregated data feeds.
Since first-party data feeds do not require redundancy at the middlemen layer,
the aggregation costs less gas and source-level decentralization becomes more
affordable.
