---
title: What is a Beacon?
folder: Introduction
---

<TitleSpan>{{$frontmatter.folder}}</TitleSpan>

# {{$frontmatter.title}}

<VersionWarning/>

<TocHeader />
<TOC class="table-of-contents" :include-level="[2,3]" />

Beacons are first-party Web3 data feeds run by the API data providers
themselves, without third-party oracle nodes as middlemen. Beacons allow smart
contract developers to connect their Web3 applications to continuously updated
streams of off-chain data, such as the latest cryptocurrency, stock and
commodities prices. They can power various decentralized applications, such as
DeFi lending, synthetic assets, stable coins, derivatives, quality assurance,
NFTs and more. Operated by the marketâ€™s most trusted and reliable data
providers, Beacons are a transparent, cost efficient and scalable way for smart
contracts to connect to the data that they need.

To achieve a completely transparent and secure design, Beacons are operated
directly by the API provider of the data they serve, without third-party node
operators used as data relayers. This means that when calling a Beacon for the
latest price of an asset, your smart contract receives a value directly from the
Web3-enabled API of the source data provider - not a third-party or a network of
third party middlemen.

The provider-operated nature of Beacons allows any dApp to consider the
off-chain reputation of the data provider and their suitability for any use
case. Bringing this level of transparency to the source of data in smart
contracts gives dApp developers confidence rather than relying on a pseudonymous
selection of third parties.

## Simple Implementation

The Beacon Server contract (_RrpBeaconServerV0.sol_) maintains a cache of
on-chain Beacon values readily available for smart contracts to retrieve
instantly as illustrated in figure below. A Beacon is updated when a pre-defined
tolerance of the Beacon's value is detected. Each Beacon has its own
configuration parameters that define when and how it updates. See the
[readDataFeedWithId()](./developers/read-data-feed-with-id.md) function doc and
learn how your smart contract can access a Beacon .

> <img src="./assets/images/dapp-beacon.png" width="550px"/>

## Airnode Enabled

Making it all work is a simple and efficient system that leverages first-party
Airnodes to keep individual Beacon values up-to-date. When a Beacon's value
falls outside a pre-defined tolerance it self-updates by calling its associated
Airnode.

In the figure below, on-chain Beacons request updates from their linked
off-chain Airnode. The Airnode's owner (an API provider) configures the
pre-defined tolerance of a Beacon's value as well as the frequency to check for
tolerance deviation. The Beacon's value is updated when the off-chain value
falls outside the Beacons value's defined tolerance. Note that a Airnode can be
related to more than one Beacon.

> <img src="./assets/images/beacon-airnode.png" width="500px"/>

## dAPIs (Building on Beacons)

To further exploit the benefit of Beacons, forthcoming dAPIs will enable dApp
developers a powerful new tool to quickly acquire aggregated Beacon values
on-chain.

dAPIs, like Beacons, are data feeds built entirely on-chain by aggregating data
from more than one Beacon. Because they are built on top of the Beacon layer
their data is also from first-party API provider _owned and operated Airnodes_.

::: tip dAPIs are under development for a pending release.

&nbsp;

:::

> <img src="./assets/images/dapi-beacons.png" width="550px"/>
>
> <p class="diagram-line" style="color:gray;margin-top:6px;">A dApp would call a dAPI, as it would a Beacon, to get an instant
> response.</p>

dAPIs consume data from Beacons in order to provide an aggregate value. For
example, in the diagram above there could be a dAPI for the ETH/USD price where
it fetches different prices from multiple Beacons such as a CoinGecko ETH/USD
beacon value, a Binance ETH/USD beacon value and so on. Such an dAPI would
aggregate and provide a value for the ETH/USD pair. This is just one use case
for a dAPI from endless possibilities.
