---
title: API Providers - Why power Beacons?
---

<TitleSpan>Introduction</TitleSpan>

# {{$frontmatter.title}}

<VersionWarning/>

<TocHeader />
<TOC class="table-of-contents" :include-level="[2,3]" />

Why power Beacons? As an API provider your core business is to provide valuable
data and to monetize the value of that data. Putting data on-chain is a new
market for many API providers. Developers of dApps are beginning to demand
on-chain data at affordable pricing and Beacons are the easy solution.

## Beacons are everywhere!

Beacons are literally everywhere and API provider data gets maximum exposure to
dApps that &ndash; run wherever. The simple design and implementation makes it
easy for API3 to deploy a Beacon on compatible evm chains. In fact many Beacons
are already there. API providers simply deploy an Airnode (_API provider owned
and operated_) to feed a Beacon present on the blockchains of their choosing.

> <img src="../assets/images/why-power-beacons.png" width="350px"/>

## Reasons to power Beacons.

Beacons are designed for API providers big and small. Implementation costs are
minimal and API3 is ready to help.

**Monetize:** Beacons are creating a new market for both API providers and dApp
developers. For dApp developers, Beacons provide a price point never before seen
on blockchains. With this attractive pricing, developers are now building
on-chain contracts they could not previously afford due to excessive costs. API
providers stand to profit from this explosion of new dApps ready to access
Beacons.

**Exposure:** By engaging the emerging Web3 market for Beacons, API providers
get additional exposure for their organizations. API providers that power
Beacons on many blockchains will establish a reputation as premier data
providers.

**Confidence from transparency :** A major advantage of Beacons is data source
transparency: a Beacon is operated by a singular first-party oracle and
therefore carries the reputation and trustworthiness of an API provider.
Developers of dApps have come to trust and believe in Airnode. The code behind
Airnode and Beacons is open sourced allowing developers to see parameters values
and view the source code used to move the data on-chain. Everything is
transparent. Beacons offer dApp developers a level of comfort that black-boxed
third-party data feeds cannot.
